=== HTML PAGE TEXT ===
What should I expect during my dermal fillers recovery? 
Recovery time varies for each patient and for each type of filler injected. You can resume most activities right away, but it is generally recommended that you avoid intense physical activity for the first 24-48 hours to minimize swelling and bruising. Be sure to discuss your specific recovery plan with your physician prior to scheduling your injections. 
Your initial appearance after treatment with any dermal filler may include: 
An "overfilled" appearance to treated areas 
Swelling or bruising ranging from mild to severe 
Temporary numbness or redness 
Palpable lumps or hard areas at the injection sites 
Hypersensitivity reaction that can seem like an allergic reaction with hives and swelling 
Most conditions can be alleviated with topical icing and massage and will improve within a matter of hours or just a few days. Some reactions may require more aggressive treatment with medications or injections. 
Although not common, visual disturbances may occur. When accompanied by pain or weakness on one side of your body, it is extremely important that you contact your surgeon and receive care immediately. 
When your own fat is the injected filler, the healing process is longer and may take a few weeks. Get more information about fat injections. 
Next: Results 
Table of Contents 
Print 
Introduction 
Candidates 
Cost 
Consultation 
Questions to Ask 
Types of Dermal Fillers 
Fat Injections as Dermal Fillers 
Risks and Safety 
Procedure Steps 
Recovery 
Results 
Before and After Photos 
Choosing a Plastic Surgeon 
Find Your Surgeon 
Latest Blogs 
Beyond filler: How fat grafting restores the face after GLP-1 weight loss Ariel Frankeny 
The rise of GLP-1 medications has transformed the conversation around weight loss, helping many patients achieve significant and often life-changing results. While the benefits of weight reduction are undeniable, rapid weight loss can also cause unexpected changes throughout the body, particularly in the face. 
From gloss to surgery: Every lip augmentation option ranked Alia Willson 
Last-minute glow-up: What procedures are safe before travel? Alia Willson 
View More Posts 
Latest Videos 
Planning Plastic Surgery Around Botox and Fillers 
"If you want to have a bigger procedure, you may be asked to have time go by or to actually have some of this stuff melted or to go away before you actually get certain procedures." 
What Is the Best Way to Look Younger Without Surgery? 
How Long Do Botox and Fillers Really Last? 
View More Posts 
Patient Care Center 
Before 
& After Photos 
View Photo Gallery 
Video Gallery 
View Video Gallery 
3D Animations 
View 3D Animations 
Patient Safety 
View Patient Safety 
Home 
Cosmetic 
Reconstructive 
Before & After Photos 
Find a Surgeon 
Patient Safety 
News 
Patients of Courage 
About ASPS 
Foundation 
Cosmetic
