=== HTML PAGE TEXT ===
What should I expect during my rhinoplasty recovery? 
During your rhinoplasty recovery , a splint and/or packing may be placed inside your nose and a splint or bandages placed on the outside to support and protect the new structures during initial healing. 
While initial swelling subsides within a few weeks, it may take up to a year for your new nasal contour to fully refine. During this time you may notice gradual changes in the appearance of your nose as it refines to a more permanent outcome. 
Swelling may come and go and worsen in the morning during the first year following your rhinoplasty surgery. 
You will be given specific instructions that may include: 
How to care for the surgical site 
Medications to apply or take orally to aid healing and reduce the potential for infection 
Specific concerns to look for at the surgical site or in your general health 
When to follow up with your plastic surgeon. 
Be sure to ask your rhinoplasty surgeon specific questions about what you can expect during your individual recovery period: 
Where will I be taken after my surgery is complete? 
What medication will I be given or prescribed after surgery? 
Will I have dressings/bandages after surgery? 
When will they be removed? 
Are stitches removed? When? 
When can I resume normal activity and exercise? 
When do I return for follow-up care? 
Next: Results 
Table of Contents 
Print 
Introduction 
Candidates 
Cost 
Consultation 
Questions to Ask 
Risks and Safety 
Preparation 
Procedure Steps 
Recovery 
Results 
Before and After Photos 
Glossary of Terms 
Choosing a Plastic Surgeon 
Visual Animation 
Find Your Surgeon 
Latest Blogs 
Summer-break surgery: Why timing matters for younger rhinoplasty patients Ariel Frankeny 
For many older teens and college-aged students, summer break represents more than time away from classes and exams. It can also feel like the perfect opportunity to pursue a long-considered procedure, such as rhinoplasty. 
The nonsurgical nose job: Is liquid rhinoplasty for you? Ariel Frankeny 
Can you reshape your nose without surgery? Understanding the thread-based nose lift Alia Willson 
View More Posts 
Latest Videos 
The Key to a Successful Rhinoplasty 
"We need to ensure that we're hitting the highlights of a patient's aesthetic goals. Could be contouring the bridge, making a more beautiful, refined tip. The surgery, in order to be truly successful, the nose must also be functional. You must be able to breathe." 
Preserving Ethnicity in Plastic Surgery 
Ethnic Rhinoplasty 
View More Posts 
Patient Care Center 
Before 
& After Photos 
View Photo Gallery 
Video Gallery 
View Video Gallery 
3D Animations 
View 3D Animations 
Patient Safety 
View Patient Safety 
Home 
Cosmetic 
Reconstructive 
Before & After Photos 
Find a Surgeon 
Patient Safety 
News 
Patients of Courage 
About ASPS 
Foundation 
Cosmetic
