=== HTML PAGE TEXT ===
What are the risks of dermal fillers? 
The decision to use fillers is extremely personal. You will have to decide if the benefits will achieve your goals and if the risks and potential complications of dermal fillers are acceptable. 
Your plastic surgeon and/or staff will explain, in detail, any risks. 
You will be asked to sign consent forms to ensure that you fully understand the procedure, as well as the risks and potential complications. 
Severe complications from dermal fillers are uncommon. Potential risks vary depending on the specific filler used and the relative permanence of the filler substance and include: 
Acne-like skin eruptions 
Asymmetry 
Bleeding from the injection site 
Bruising 
Damage to the skin that results in a wound and possible scarring 
Infection at the injection site 
Lumps 
Palpability of the filler under the surface of the skin 
Skin necrosis (ulceration or loss of skin from disruption of blood flow) 
Skin rash with itching 
Skin redness 
Swelling 
Under- or over-correction of wrinkles 
In very rare cases, the filler may accidentally be injected into your blood vessels instead of under your skin. This can block blood flow. What happens if your blood flow is blocked will vary depending on where the block is. If your skin is affected, you might have skin loss or wounds. If your eye is affected, you might lose your eyesight or go blind. 
These risks and others will be fully discussed prior to your consent. 
It is important that you address all your questions directly with your plastic surgeon, including those complications requiring urgent care. Although good results are expected from your procedure, there is no guarantee that you will be satisfied with your results. Because significant complications can occur from dermal filler injections, it is important to be in the care of a board certified plastic surgeon who understands the risks and is trained and prepared to deal with any complications that may occur. 
In some situations, it may not be possible to achieve optimal results with a single procedure. Most fillers do dissipate over time. To maintain your correction, you will need to consider repeating the injection process at intervals. 
Next: Procedure Steps 
Table of Contents 
Print 
Introduction 
Candidates 
Cost 
Consultation 
Questions to Ask 
Types of Dermal Fillers 
Fat Injections as Dermal Fillers 
Risks and Safety 
Procedure Steps 
Recovery 
Results 
Before and After Photos 
Choosing a Plastic Surgeon 
Find Your Surgeon 
Latest Blogs 
Beyond filler: How fat grafting restores the face after GLP-1 weight loss Ariel Frankeny 
The rise of GLP-1 medications has transformed the conversation around weight loss, helping many patients achieve significant and often life-changing results. While the benefits of weight reduction are undeniable, rapid weight loss can also cause unexpected changes throughout the body, particularly in the face. 
From gloss to surgery: Every lip augmentation option ranked Alia Willson 
Last-minute glow-up: What procedures are safe before travel? Alia Willson 
View More Posts 
Latest Videos 
Planning Plastic Surgery Around Botox and Fillers 
"If you want to have a bigger procedure, you may be asked to have time go by or to actually have some of this stuff melted or to go away before you actually get certain procedures." 
What Is the Best Way to Look Younger Without Surgery? 
How Long Do Botox and Fillers Really Last? 
View More Posts 
Patient Care Center 
Before 
& After Photos 
View Photo Gallery 
Video Gallery 
View Video Gallery 
3D Animations 
View 3D Animations 
Patient Safety 
View Patient Safety 
Home 
Cosmetic 
Reconstructive 
Before & After Photos 
Find a Surgeon 
Patient Safety 
News 
Patients of Courage 
About ASPS 
Foundation 
Cosmetic
